0.1 - Got Django 2.1 admin running on hgwdev and proof of concept that
      the multiple selects on many-to-many fields work there.  Made
      basic Contributor, Lab, Project, Grant tables and a few of the
      biologically relevant tables in first draft.  Showed to Clay.
0.2 - Went through Clay's wish list and got through about 3/4 of the
      stuff we have control over.  There's lots of tables for things
      like organs, assays, and project state.  The controlled vocabs
      are managed by a separate table for the vocab in question that
      the wranglers can extend.  People can put comments on most things.
0.3 - Figured out how to set up file uploads so that people can download
      a file after it's uploaded.  Used this for holding the excel
      spreadsheets and other key files for wranglers.  Got through
      the other 1/4 of Clay's wish list.  Polished up the project
      details page a bit to condense it again with all the recent
      additions.  Changing 'vocab' to 'wrangler' as a prefix for the
      tables most people should ignore, and figured out how to do 
      this without changing the table names.
0.4 - Adding a bunch of date fields in project, and a specific comment
      field for the submission.  Refining state names and adding more so can 
      show project as it goes through analysis a bit.  Breaking now huge
      wrangling section into three:  wrangling, submission steps, post-submission.
          tech note:
      Django migration gets easily confused around multi-to-multi tables 
      that are reflected so as to appear on both tables being related.  
      I've had to do pretty painful patches two or three times now.  :-(   
      I'll probably figure out the pattern though.  
0.5 - Changes done largely in response to feedback from the wranglers and Max.
      These include
         - Making the comments simple text fields rather than many-to-many relations 
	   with a hcat_comment table.
	 - Making a wrangler table, to add more info without burdening contributor.
	   This should also make it simpler to filter by wrangler. 
	 - Made some fields in the lab optional.
	 - You can filter projects by wrangler1.
	 - Added chat url to overall section
	 - Added a new submission step - assigned to curator
	 - The contributor role is now a key into a vocab table.  There's roles defined
	   for program officer (Jonah), pipeliner (Tim), analyst (Jing Zhu and Max),
	   lab contact (not enough), PI (too many), intern (just enough) with parenthetical
	   remarks addressed to our test database.
	 - The submission steps section is changed to be date first, and a few have been
	   renamed, notably curation.
      In anticipation of working with interns I made an Intern object similar to the 
      Wrangler one.  I also added SoftwareDeveloper while I was in there.
0.6 - Adding uuid field to the project table.  
